Future Ideas:
    1. What about some knowledge of how well the individuals of a species performed in the previous generation? What
    if changing connection wts a certain way dramatically improved the performance? Why lose that information and
    randomly perturb again? I suppose if you have enough individuals you're going to get movement in the same way
    again, but this seems unlikely as the ANN size grows large. You'll need too many individuals.

    If you had some idea of the connection wt. delta the generation before and how that impacted fitness you might be
    able to leverage that information to close in on connection wt. optimization faster.

    Make sure to avoid thrashing!

    Massively duplicate a few candidate genomes from promising species and only fiddle with the connection weights
    as described above? Depends on how long any evaluation takes...

    2. Why not keep a global list of all innovations instead of just for the current generation? Connecting hidden node
    a to output node b is the same structural innovation if it occurs in generation 4 vs. generation 20. How do you
    even crossover genomes that have different historical markers that specify the same connection?

    3. Tetris as a good start?! Might be interesting...

    4. We're limited to having the number of hidden nodes at any layer be at most as many inputs or outputs, whichever
     is greater. Since adding node genes splits an existing connection, there is no opportunity to 'widen' the hidden
     node ranks. Is this a limitation or not?

    5. We don't seem to exempt interspecies offspring form being the representative of the species the next generation.
    It seems like this could be a problem with species long term continuity. Say the new offspring is chosen as the
    representative for that species after a given generation. It is very likely it will no longer match in compatibility
    with any other individual period, much less ones of its own species. It would then carry the torch of the species
    and the size of the specie would shrink to just that individual.
        I wonder if I should explicitly exempt interspecies offspring from being the representative for one cycle
        of species sorting.

        ...On second thought, this might not be a problem with a simple change. If we choose the representative for the
        next generation after sorting all the individuals into species we're guaranteed to have a representative that
        is within the compatiblity distance. Oddball offspring from wildly different genomes will already be sorted
        as founders of novel species.

    6. I think a mock fitness evaluator would be very useful to check the outcome of many generations of evolution with
    a given set of mutation params. I could check the genome size, rate of connection and node generation, complexity
    increase, etc, much faster than actually evaluating an actual goal process. I would have to have some basic
    rules in place for the fitness setter that goes beyond simply randomly assigning fitness values to the individuals.